---
permalink: /abortion/
layout: single
title: "About Abortion"
toc: true
---

In the United States, abortion is safe and legal. One in four women in
the US has an abortion [by the age of
45](https://www.guttmacher.org/fact-sheet/induced-abortion-united-states). We
provide some basic information on abortion below. [Your
provider](/providers) can provide additional details on abortion and
can assist in answering any question you may have prior to your
procedure. [Women for Women](/) can provide [financial
assistance](/financial) to Wyoming residents seeking an abortion.

## General Information

An induced abortion is when a pregnancy is ended intentionally. Most
abortions are performed within the first 16 weeks of pregnancy
(measured from the date of your last period). The following
information is regarding abortions performed within 16 weeks of
pregnancy; abortions performed later than 16 weeks may require
different procedures.

An abortion can be performed in an office or clinic. There are two
types of procedures: [medical abortion](#medical-abortion) and
[surgical abortion](#surgical-abortion). Before either type of
procedure, several tests will be performed. The pregnancy will be
confirmed and an accurate gestational time will be determined using an
ultrasound. A blood test will be drawn. Often,
[STI](https://www.plannedparenthood.org/learn/stds-hiv-safer-sex)
testing will be performed and contraception options will be discussed.

## Medical Abortion

A [medical
abortion](https://www.plannedparenthood.org/learn/abortion/the-abortion-pill),
also called a medication abortion and colloquially referred to as the
"abortion pill", is induced by taking a course of medication. It can
be performed up to 10 weeks after first day of the last menstrual
period. The most common course of medication uses a combination of
[mifepristone](https://medlineplus.gov/druginfo/meds/a600042.html) and
[misoprostol](https://medlineplus.gov/druginfo/meds/a689009.html), as
well as antibiotics to reduce the chance of infection. The combination
of these medications stop the fetus from developing and induces the
uterus to contract and empty. Most women describe the experience of
medication abortion as feeling like a bad menstrual period with strong
cramps. Women may experience fever, chills, diarrhea or nausea, as
well. The pregnancy will be expelled from the uterus in 4 to 6 hours,
after which the pain and cramping usually improve. Bleeding may
continue for up to two weeks, and spotting may continue for several
weeks. The pain can be managed with over-the-counter pain medication
such as acetaminophen (Tylenol) or ibuprofen (Advil or Motrin), or
heating pads.

Medical abortion is highly effective, but in rare cases (about 3% of
the time) the abortion fails to complete. In these cases, a [surgical
abortion](#surgical-abortion) procedure is required to ensure the
pregnancy is completely expelled and avoid any further complications.

## Surgical Abortion

For a [surgical
abortion](https://www.plannedparenthood.org/learn/abortion/in-clinic-abortion-procedures),
sometimes callsed an "in-clinic" abortion, a physician will perform a
procedure in which the contents of the uterus are removed through the
cervix by suction. Similar to a pelvic exam, you will recline on an
exam table and place your feet in stirrups. A speculum will be used to
visualize the cervix at the end of the vaginal canal. A local
anesthetic will be injected into the cervix to numb it. Once numbed,
the opening of the cervix will be dilated (made larger) and a tube or
the tip of a syringe will be inserted into the cervix. Suction will be
applied and the contents of the uterus will be expelled. The procedure
usually lasts 5 to 20 minutes. Typically, the longer the length of
gestation, the longer and more uncomfortable the procedure. The
discomfort during the procedure is usually described as similar to
severe menstrual cramping. Pain may be managed with pain
pills. Sedation may also be used and requires the placement of an
IV. After the procedure, you will be closely monitored for at least 30
minutes. Bleeding (similar to a period) may continue for a few days
and spotting may last a few weeks. Cramping and pain may last a few
hours after the procedure and typically will be managed with ibuprofen
(Advil or Motrin), acetaminophen (Tylenol), or a heating pad.

## After an Abortion

To reduce the risk of infection, nothing should enter the vagina for
two weeks after an abortion. This includes avoiding the use of
tampons, intercourse, or douching. Post-procedure follow-up
appointments are important to verify the success of the
procedure. Your first normal period should return within 6 weeks of
the procedure. Do not take a pregnancy test within 6 weeks of the
procedure as it will not be accurate.

Although rare, be sure to contact the clinic or office that performed
your procedure if you experience any of these things:

* excessive bleeding (soaking 1 regular menstrual pad in an
  hour) that lasts for two hours or more
* a fever greater than 100.4 degrees Fahrenheit
* excessive pain
* foul smelling discharge from the vagina.

Also notify your provider if symptoms of pregnancy such as breast
tenderness or morning sickness persist or your period has not returned
within 6 weeks of the procedure.

Many providers also offer [birth
control](https://www.plannedparenthood.org/learn/birth-control)
services that can help to prevent future unintended pregnancies. Ask
your provider about the options they offer and which may be best for
you. Many providers can provide effective, long term birth control
options at a discounted or free rate for those in need of financial
assistance.
