---
permalink: /about/
layout: single
title: "About Women for Women"
toc: true
---

Women for Women was established in 1998 and has been supporting
Wyoming women ever since.

## Overview

[Women for Women](/) is a 501(c)(3) non-profit organization
established to ensure Wyoming women can make and implement the
critical personal decision whether to terminate a pregnancy. Wyoming
residents must travel out of state or to the far western corner of
Wyoming to access an abortion provider. Consequently, in addition to
the procedureâ€™s cost, they often incur substantial expenses for travel
and time away from responsibilities. Many cannot come up with those
funds in the short time before the procedure. One in four women in the
US has an abortion [by the age of
45](https://www.guttmacher.org/fact-sheet/induced-abortion-united-states).
Having an abortion is something many women decide is necessary and
critical to their lives. **WE TRUST WOMEN** to be the best at making
that decision for themselves.

## Mission

We firmly believe that a woman's ability to make and implement these
critical decisions about her own body, her own life, and her physical,
emotional and financial health should not depend on whether she has
the financial resources to instantly pay this unexpected and
significant expense. Having sufficient funds should not be the
determining factor whether to carry a pregnancy to term. Women for
Women is here to help bring reproductive justice to the women of
Wyoming and make sure that children are wanted, intentional, and not a
result of lacking sufficient money.

## Donations

Women for Women is all-volunteer. That means all donated funds,
excepting negligible amounts for stamps, PO Box fees, etc., go
entirely to helping women pay for the cost of the
abortion. Consequently, any donation you make directly helps a Wyoming
woman in a very stressful situation access critical reproductive
health care and decision-making control over her own body. Please help
us provide reproductive justice to Wyoming women!

You can **donate to us online** via PayPal:

<div class="text-center">
  <form class="donation_form" action="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr"
        method="post" target="_top">
    <input type="hidden" name="cmd" value="_s-xclick">
    <input type="hidden" name="hosted_button_id" value="Q57G3Q73CJNML">
    <input type="image" src="https://www.paypalobjects.com/en_US/i/btn/btn_donateCC_LG.gif"
           border="0" name="submit" alt="Donate via PayPal">
  </form>
</div>

Or by **mailing a check** made out for "Women for Women" to:

Women for Women  
P.O. Box 1472  
Lander, WY 82520  
{: .text-center}

Women for Women is recognized by the IRS as a 501(c)(3) non-profit
organization, EIN 83-0322262. Our exemption derives from a group
exemption granted to the National Network of Abortion Funds of which
we are an affiliate. Donations are deductible to the extent allowed by
law.

## Website

The Women for Women website is built using
[Jekyll](https://jekyllrb.com/) and [Minimal
Mistakes](https://mmistakes.github.io/minimal-mistakes/). The [source
code](https://github.com/wyomingw4w/wyomingw4w.org) is available on
[GitHub](https://github.com/wyomingw4w). Pull requests and suggestions
are welcome.

The website is hosted via [Digital
Ocean](https://m.do.co/c/3dc8d28d8a47). Our HTTPS certificate is
provided for free via [Lets Encrypt](https://letsencrypt.org/).
