---
permalink: /resources/
layout: single
title: "Resources and Journalism"
toc: true
---

This page provides links to other abortion resources, as well as
highlighting various news and journalism covering the topic of
abortion. [Women for Women](/) is not generally affiliated with the
links on this page, but provides them as potentially useful to other
Wyoming women.

## Abortion Resources

### Wyoming Abortion Fund

Like [Women for Women](/), the [Wyoming Abortion
Fund](https://www.plannedparenthood.org/planned-parenthood-rocky-mountains/patient-resources/wyoming-abortion-fund)
assists Wyoming women in funding abortions. If you live in Wyoming and
need help paying for an abortion, the Wyoming Abortion Fund may be
able to help you. Call their toll-free hotline, **(866) 372-7526**, to
see if you qualify. Although this fund is administered by Planned
Parenthood, you can choose any abortion provider; it does not have to
be a Planned Parenthood health center.

### Exhale

[Exhale](https://exhaleprovoice.org/) provides after-apportion support
via a talk-line at **866-4-EXHALE**. They aim to create a social
climate where each person’s unique experience with abortion is
supported, respected, and free from stigma. Exhale provides services,
training, and education to empower individuals, families, and
communities to achieve post-abortion health and well-being.

### NARAL Pro-Choice America and Pro-Choice Wyoming

[NARAL Pro-Choice America](https://www.prochoiceamerica.org/) was
established in 1969 as the National Association for the Repeal of
Abortion Laws. After the Supreme Court's 1973 Roe v. Wade decision,
NARAL changed its name to the National Abortion and Reproductive
Rights Action League and subsequently to NARAL Pro-Choice
America. NARAL works to protect and expand reproductive freedom across
the United States through lobbying and using the political process to
advance good ideas to protect women's freedom and fight back against
ideas that threaten women's privacy.

NARAL's Wyoming affiliate is [NARAL Pro-Choice
Wyoming](https://www.prochoicewyoming.org/). NARAL Pro-Choice Wyoming
provides critical watch-dogging and lobbying in the Wyoming's
legislature and throughout the state. **If you want to stay informed
on pending issues or support pro-choice lobbying in Wyoming**,
consider becoming a member of NARAL Pro-choice Wyoming.

### National Network of Abortion Funds

The [National Network of Abortion Funds](https://abortionfunds.org/)
(NNAF) is the "hub" of individual abortion funds such as [Women for
Women](/), creating opportunities for funds to share their work, to
learn from each other, and to support each other, wherever they were
located. NNAF includes nearly 100 abortion funds in the United States,
Mexico, Canada, and the United Kingdom. The Network also includes one
international Internet-based abortion fund that helps women who live
in countries where access to abortion care is severely limited or
illegal. NNAF educates legislators, the White House, the national
media, and the public about the particular barriers to abortion for
low-income women, immigrant women, Native and indigenous women,
minors, women in prison, and rural and urban women working at the
national level to fight against unjust policies like the Hyde
Amendment that interfere with low-income women's access to abortion
care. **Women for Women is a proud NNAF affiliate.**

### Planned Parenthood

For nearly 100 years, [Planned
Parenthood](https://www.plannedparenthood.org/) has promoted a
commonsense approach to women's health and well-being, based on
respect for each individual’s right to make informed, independent
decisions about health, sex, and family planning. Planned Parenthood
is dedicated to offering men, women, and teens high-quality,
affordable medical care. One in five American women has chosen Planned
Parenthood for health care at least once in her life. The nearest
abortion clinic for numerous Wyoming women is a Planned Parenthood
clinic.

### Guttmacher Institute

The [Guttmacher Institute](https://www.guttmacher.org/) advances
sexual and reproductive health and rights through an interrelated
program of research, policy analysis and public education designed to
generate new ideas, encourage enlightened public debate and promote
sound policy and program development. The Institute’s overarching goal
is to ensure the highest standard of sexual and reproductive health
for all people worldwide.

### Our Bodies Ourselves

[Our Bodies Ourselves](https://www.ourbodiesourselves.org/) (OBOS) is
a nonprofit, public interest organization based in Cambridge, MA, that
develops and promotes evidence-based information on girls' and women's
reproductive health and sexuality. They publish the well-known
[women's health
manual](https://www.ourbodiesourselves.org/publications/our-bodies-ourselves-2011/)
of the same name.

## Journalism and News

* [The Abortion Ministry of Dr. Willie
  Parker](http://www.esquire.com/news-politics/a23771/abortion-ministry-of-dr-willie-parker-0914/):
  An insightful profile of Alabama born, Baptist raised, Harvard
  educated doctor who today travels a circuit of southern states to
  provide abortion care.
* [What It's Really Like yo Have an
  Abortion](http://www.cosmopolitan.com/sex-love/news/a31727/what-its-really-like-to-have-an-abortion/):
  Five women answer questions about their experiences.
* [How Three Fierce Justices Took Control of the Supreme
  Court](http://www.slate.com/articles/news_and_politics/supreme_court_dispatches/2016/03/in_oral_arguments_for_the_texas_abortion_case_the_three_female_justices.html):
  A report on the oral argument for Whole Women's Health
  v. Hellerstedt, the most important abortion case in decades. The
  three women justices illuminated the sham that the Texas law -- and
  others laws like it -- is.
